---
description: Amplifying Investment Growth Through Commitment
cover: ../../.gitbook/assets/Screen Shot 2023-05-25 at 10.46.33.png
coverY: 0
---

# 🌱 K-Stake: Single KEI Staking

## <mark style="color:purple;">**The Core Function: Long-Term Capital Growth**</mark>

The staking function within Kei Finance plays an essential role in fostering long-term investment growth. By staking KEI tokens, users participate in the protocol's continuous operability, securing and nurturing their investments. The overarching philosophy of KEI staking is straightforward - the longer the stake, the higher the rewards.

## <mark style="color:purple;">**Reward Redistribution: Recirculating Value**</mark>

A percentage of all rewards generated by the platform's operations are redistributed directly to stakers. This continuous reallocation of earnings not only amplifies staker returns but also promotes long-term commitment to the protocol.



## <mark style="color:purple;">**Staked-KEI Tokens: The Staking Commitment**</mark>

Users stake their KEI tokens for a predefined duration to earn staked-KEI tokens (sKEI). These tokens represent a user's stake position and commitment to the protocol. Unstaking sKEI before the end of the predetermined staking period will invoke a penalty, reinforcing the principle of responsible staking.

## <mark style="color:purple;">**Penalty Structure: Discouraging Early Unstaking**</mark>

The penalty incurred for early unstaking is calculated based on the fraction of the committed staking period completed. The longer the staking duration and the earlier the unstaking, the higher the penalty imposed. This model encourages users to fully honor their staking commitments to maximize their rewards.

This deterrent discourages impulsive entry and exit from the staking pool, fostering a more stable and dependable staking environment.

<mark style="color:purple;">**Unstaking Penalty Example:**</mark> A user staking their KEI tokens for a year who decides to unstake within the first 10 days could incur a penalty as high as 99% of the stake. In contrast, a user opting to unstake on the 340th day could incur a significantly lower penalty, reflecting the completed duration of their staking commitment.\
\
**Formula:**

## <mark style="color:purple;">**Penalties and Principal: A Responsible Balance**</mark>

Initially, the penalties are applied to the staking profits. However, premature unstaking could result in penalties being deducted from the staked principal. The precise impact depends on how early a user decides to unstake.

## <mark style="color:purple;">**Partial Unstaking: Offering Flexibility**</mark>

Recognizing the need for flexibility, KEI Finance allows stakers to partially unstake their tokens, incurring penalties only on the unstaked portion at that specific time. This feature provides stakers with an added layer of control over their investment strategy.

## <mark style="color:purple;">Trading Staked Positions: Avoid fees for greater flexibility</mark>&#x20;

Furthering the recognition of flexibility users also have the option to sell their whole of partial position to other users who take on the staking period committment. Learn more of trading staked positions in the [StakeFrame](../k-positions-kei-portfolio-trading-coming-soon.md) section.&#x20;

## <mark style="color:purple;">**Post-Duration Rewards: No Penalties, Continuous Earnings**</mark>

Once the committed staking duration is over, stakers continue earning rewards on their staked KEI tokens until they decide to unstake. At this stage, unstaking can be executed at any time without incurring any penalties, rewarding stakers for their completed commitment.

More on the penalties associated with unstaking earlier than stipulated can be seen in the [Unstake Penalty](./#unstake-penalty) section.
